Swarm Documentation (#28)
ag2ai/ag2: website/blog/2024-11-17-Swarm/index.mdx

title: Building Swarm-based agents with AutoGen
authors:
  - yiranwu
  - marklysze
tags: [groupchat, swarm]
---

> AutoGen Groupchat now supports a new speaker selection method, `swarm`, which allows quick implementation of the swarm orchestration from OpenAI's [Swarm](https://github.com/openai/swarm) framework.

Reviewer: In Openai's Swam spec, Agents and Handoffs are two primitive abstractions. 
"An Agent encompasses instructions and tools". Please specify any difference of the Agent instructions and tools in this implementation.

Here are two key features of the `swarm` speaker selection method:
- **Headoffs**: Agents can transfer control to another agent via function calls, enabling smooth transitions within workflows.

> - **Context Variables**: Agents can dynamically update shared variables through function calls, maintaining context and adaptability throughout the process.

Reviewer: What we usually put in the Context Variables? 
Agent states? How about message history?

For example, in Langgraph's implementation of Agent Orchestration, they include all messages in the global states dict.

Author: The message history will be captured by the groupchat and will be passed to agent each time. The Context Variables is more like a condensed set of variables

title: Building Swarm-based agents with GroupChat
authors:
  - yiranwu
  - marklysze
tags: [groupchat, swarm]
---

AutoGen Groupchat now supports a new speaker selection method, `swarm`, which allows quick implementation of the swarm orchestration from OpenAI's [Swarm](https://github.com/openai/swarm) framework.

Here are two key features of the `swarm` speaker selection method:
- **Headoffs**: Agents can transfer control to another agent via function calls, enabling smooth transitions within workflows.
- **Context Variables**: Agents can dynamically update shared variables through function calls, maintaining context and adaptability throughout the process.

## Tips for Building Swarm-based Agents

1. The `swarm` speaker selection method needs to be used in conjunction with `SwarmAgent` and `SwarmResult` classes.

```python

> from autogen.agentchat.swarm.swarm_agent import SwarmAgent, SwarmResult

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
from autogen import SwarmAgent, SwarmResult
```
Do we have to import SwarmResult? Is it possible to import `SwarmAgent` only?

```

> 2. The `Swarm` orchestration require human involvement. When a user (human) sends requests, the swarm would transfer controls within agents so that the most suitable agent can respond.

Reviewer 2: I guess this is outdated.

---
title: Building Swarm-based agents with AG2
authors:
  - yiranwu
  - marklysze
tags: [groupchat, swarm]
---

AG2 now provides an implementation of the swarm orchestration from OpenAI's [Swarm](https://github.com/openai/swarm) framework, with some additional features!

*Background*: the swarm orchestration is a multi-agent collaboration where agents execute tasks and are responsible for handing-off to other agents.

Here are the key features of the swarm orchestration:

> - **Hand offs**: Agents can transfer control to another agent, enabling smooth and direct transitions within workflows.

Reviewer 2: A research can be made to compare the hand-off transition vs. the transition made by group chat manager. My hypothesis is that the hand-off transition can be more accurate for the exactly same transition conditions because it reduces the number of decisions a single LLM needs to make.

Author: Noted in a issue.

> - **Self-execute functions**: Agents execute their own functions

Reviewer 2: Auto-execute?
The functions are executed automatically, but not by the same agent.

Author: I will remove this line for now (Self-execute functions).

> - **Context variables**: Agents can dynamically update a shared memory through function calls, maintaining context and adaptability throughout the process.

Reviewer 2: We can also do a research to compare using context variables vs. asking agents to maintain context directly in the message.

Author: Noted in an issue.

In addition to the OpenAI implementation, AG2 provides:
- **Built-in human-in-the-loop**: Adding a user agent (UserProxyAgent) to your swarm will allow swarm agents to transition back to the user. Provides a means to clarify and confirm with the user without breaking out of the swarm.

> - **Fall-back agent**: The ability to automatically transition to a nominated swarm agent when an agent has completed their task.

Reviewer 2: Can make it more general, such as "transition beyond tool call"? So that in future when we extend the feature, the same statement holds.
Another feature is an intuitive and simple interface to auto-register tool calls for orchestration.

Author: Updated

You can specify the swarm-level after work hand off when initiating the swarm (here we nominate to terminate):
```python
history, context, last_agent = initiate_swarm_chat(
    init_agent=responder,
    agents=my_list_of_swarm_agents,
    max_rounds=30,
    messages=messages,
    after_work=AFTER_WORK(AfterWorkOption.TERMINATE)
)
```

## Creating a swarm

1. Define the functions that can be used by your `SwarmAgent`s.
2. Create your `SwarmAgent`s (which derives from `ConversableAgent`).
3. For each swarm agent, specify the hand offs (transitions to another agent) and what to do when they have finished their work (termed *After Work*).
4. Optionally, create your context dictionary.
5. Call `initiate_swarm_chat`.

### Example

This example of managing refunds demonstrates the context handling, swarm and agent-level conditional and after work hand offs, and the human-in-the-loop feature.

```python
from autogen.agentchat.contrib.swarm_agent import initiate_swarm_chat, SwarmAgent, SwarmResult, ON_CONDITION, AFTER_WORK, AfterWorkOption
from autogen import UserProxyAgent
import os

# All our swarm agents will use GPT-4o-mini from OpenAI
llm_config = {
    "config_list":
    [
        {

>             "api_type": "openai",

Reviewer 2: remove for simplicity

Author: Updated

    llm_config=llm_config,
    functions=[approve_refund_and_transfer],
)

payment_processor = SwarmAgent(
    name="PaymentProcessor",
    system_message="""You are a payment processor.
    Process the refund payment and provide a confirmation message to the customer.""",
    llm_config=llm_config,
    functions=[process_refund_payment],
)

satisfaction_surveyor = SwarmAgent(
    name="SatisfactionSurveyor",
    system_message="""You are a customer satisfaction specialist.
    Ask the customer to rate their experience with the refund process.""",
    llm_config=llm_config,
)

# Conditional and After work hand offs

customer_service.register_hand_off(
    hand_to=[
        ON_CONDITION(refund_specialist, "After customer verification, transfer to refund specialist"),
        AFTER_WORK(AfterWorkOption.REVERT_TO_USER)
    ]
)

payment_processor.register_hand_off(
    hand_to=[
        AFTER_WORK(satisfaction_surveyor),
    ]
)

# Our human, you, allowing swarm agents to revert back for more information
user = UserProxyAgent(
    name="User",
    system_message="The customer, always answers questions when agents require more information.",
    human_input_mode="ALWAYS",

>     code_execution_config=False,

Reviewer 2: Remove for simplicity

Author: Updated

Next speaker: PaymentProcessor

PaymentProcessor (to chat_manager):

Your refund for order #12345 has been processed successfully.
You should see the amount credited back to your account shortly.
If you have any further questions or need assistance, feel free to reach out.
Thank you for your patience!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Next speaker: SatisfactionSurveyor

SatisfactionSurveyor (to chat_manager):

Thank you for your patience during the refund process!
We hope you are satisfied with your experience.
Could you please rate your satisfaction with the refund process from 1 to 5,
where 1 is very dissatisfied and 5 is very satisfied?
Your feedback is valuable to us!

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Context Variables:
{
  "customer_verified": true,
  "refund_approved": true,
  "payment_processed": true,
  "passport_number": "AUS923828C"
}
```

### Notes

- Behind-the-scenes, swarm agents are supported by a tool execution agent, that executes tools on their behalf. Hence, the appearance of `Tool Execution` in the output.

> - Only swarm agents can be added to a swarm. This is to maintain their ability to manage context variables, self-execute functions, and support hand offs.

Reviewer 2: Eventually, we may want to allow "ConversableAgent" to have the same capability and make "SwarmAgent" just a simpler subclass with certain defaults changed (like AssistantAgent and UserProxyAgent). That will maximize the compatibility and interoperatability.
```suggestion
- Currently only swarm agents can be added to a swarm. This is to maintain their ability to manage context variables, auto-execute functions, and support hand offs. Eventually, we may allow ConversableAgent to have the same capability and make "SwarmAgent" a simpler subclass with certain defaults changed (like AssistantAgent and UserProxyAgent).
```

Author: Updated
